# 📂 Project 1.1 DATABASE
                             LAB 270 Selecting data from a database 

In this project, I learned how data is stored and accessed inside a relational database. The main goal was to get comfortable writing SQL queries that pull meaningful information from different tables. Throughout the lab, I practiced connecting to a database, looking through its structure, and using SELECT statements to filter, sort, and display data in useful ways.

This hands-on work helped me understand how databases organize information and how SQL can be used to answer real questions about that data.

✔ Project Objectives
✔ Navigate and explore database structures

Learn how to view tables, columns, and data types using commands such as:

SHOW TABLES

DESCRIBE

SELECT * FROM table_name LIMIT …

✔ Retrieve and filter data using SELECT statements

Write SQL queries to:

Select specific columns

Filter data using WHERE conditions

Sort results with ORDER BY

Limit output using LIMIT

Use comparison and logical operators to refine results

This ensures the ability to extract only the information needed for analysis.

✔ Strengthen query accuracy, readability, and performance

Understand how proper formatting, indexing considerations, and clear query structure contribute to better database performance and easier troubleshooting.

This knowledge is essential for maintaining efficient, scalable database systems.

📂 Project 1.2  
                        LAB 272  Working with functions

In this lab, I explored how functions are used inside a database to transform, calculate, and manipulate data directly within SQL queries. The goal was to understand the different types of built-in database functions and how they can help clean, format, summarize, or extract meaningful information from data stored in tables.

Throughout the lab, I practiced using a variety of SQL functions, including string functions, numeric functions, date/time functions, and aggregate functions. This helped me see how functions can make SQL queries more powerful and help solve real-world data problems.             

✔ Project Objectives
✔ Understand what database functions are used for

I learned that functions allow SQL to process data on the fly — whether that's changing text, performing calculations, working with dates, or summarizing large sets of values. Functions help make queries cleaner and more efficient.

✔ Use string functions to clean and format text

I worked with functions that help adjust or analyze text values, such as:

Converting text to upper or lower case

Trimming spaces

Extracting parts of a string

Concatenating text

These were useful for cleaning messy data or preparing it for reports.

>Lab 270 (Selecting Data from a Database):
The challenges about SQL syntax, errors, understanding table structures, and interpreting query results fit perfectly with selection/query work.

>Lab 272 (Working With Database Functions):
The challenges about remembering functions, handling errors, and understanding output directly apply to working with string, numeric, date, and aggregate functions.
